_blog/jobsearch.md, before:

---
layout: blog
title: Job Search Resources
description: Use these self-study resources to find a job or internship.
author: Vinesh Kannan
published: 2022-02-05
display: true
permalink: /jobsearch
---

We want to help you succeed in your job or internship search! That is why Scarlet Data Studio has a special model: we do not select interns until the end of the semester. Instead, we provide resources to help you find a role that fits your interests.

If your search is successful, you can get an offer from another organization even before the semester ends! And if despite all your efforts you are not able to get another internship, you will still have a chance to join Scarlet Data Studio.

## Getting Started

Bookmark this page so you can come back to it while you work on your job search.

If you are interested in software engineering, [apply to the Scarlet Data Studio internship](../apply)!

When you submit your application, we will email you your own job search progress tracker, a spreadsheet that will help you search for other opportunities.

## Milestones

There are five main milestones in your job search:

1. Finding relevant roles
2. Revising your resume
3. Applying to roles
4. Interviewing for roles
5. Negotiating offers for roles

As you reach each milestone, you can check them off in your progress tracker spreadsheet.

The goal of your job search is to get an offer, preferably multiple offers, so that you can negotiate. Most students fall into one of two groups:

- **Group 1:** Applying to roles, but not getting invited for interviews
- **Group 2:** Interviewing for roles, but not getting offers

If you are in group 1, your goal is to get your first interview or get interviews more often. You can accomplish that by focusing on these job search skills:

- [Finding relevant roles](../guide/finding-roles)
- [Revising your resume](../guide/revising-resume)

If you are in group 2, your goal is to pass your interviews so you can secure offers. Most likely, the roles you are finding and your resume are good, so you should focus on interview preparation:

- [Practicing technical interviews](../guide/practicing-technicals)

## Other Resources

Here are helpful links from around the web to help you learn more:

### Career Development

- [Two-Hour Job Search](https://www.slideshare.net/kocharsimardeep/the-2-hour-job-search-book-summary-63004716)
- [Luck Surface Area](https://www.codusoperandi.com/posts/increasing-your-luck-surface-area)
- Behavioral Interviews: [STAR Method](https://www.themuse.com/advice/star-interview-method)
- Technical Interviews: [Data Structures & Algorithms Questions in Python](https://github.com/donnemartin/interactive-coding-challenges)
- Negotiating Offers ([Part 1](https://haseebq.com/my-ten-rules-for-negotiating-a-job-offer/), [Part 2](https://haseebq.com/how-not-to-bomb-your-offer-negotiation/))
- [Stretch Opportunities](https://twitter.com/mekkaokereke/status/1218940982122577921)

### Software Engineering

- [Pair Programming](https://martinfowler.com/articles/on-pair-programming.html)
- [Code Reviews](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/developer/)
- [Blameless Culture](https://medium.com/zendesk-engineering/blameless-culture-21662ab9118c)
- [How to Search For Solutions](https://medium.com/@niamhpower/how-to-google-effectively-as-a-developer-4ebe363afe)
- [System Design](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer)
- [Engineering Ladders](http://www.engineeringladders.com/)

Commit message:

Add guides on networking and software engineering

_blog/jobsearch.md, after:

---
layout: blog
title: Job Search Resources
description: Use these self-study resources to find a job or internship.
author: Scarlet Data Studio
published: 2022-02-05
display: true
permalink: /jobsearch
---

We want to help you succeed in your job or internship search! That is why Scarlet Data Studio has a special model: we do not select interns until the end of the semester. Instead, we provide resources to help you find a role that fits your interests.

If your search is successful, you can get an offer from another organization even before the semester ends! And if despite all your efforts you are not able to get another internship, you will still have a chance to join Scarlet Data Studio.

## Getting Started

Bookmark this page so you can come back to it while you work on your job search.

If you are interested in software engineering, [apply to the Scarlet Data Studio internship](../apply)!

When you submit your application, we will email you your own job search progress tracker, a spreadsheet that will help you search for other opportunities.

## Milestones

There are six main milestones in your job search:

1. Networking with people in the industry
2. Finding relevant roles
3. Revising your resume
4. Applying to roles
5. Interviewing for roles
6. Negotiating offers for roles

As you reach each milestone, you can check them off in your progress tracker spreadsheet.

The goal of your job search is to get an offer, preferably multiple offers, so that you can negotiate.

Most students fall into one of two groups:

- **Group 1:** Applying to roles, but not getting invited for interviews
- **Group 2:** Interviewing for roles, but not getting offers

If you are in group 1, your goal is to get your first interview or get interviews more often. You can accomplish that by focusing on these job search skills:

- [Learning about software engineering](../guide/swe)
- [Finding relevant roles](../guide/roles)
- [Revising your resume](../guide/resume)
- [Growing your network](../guide/network)

If you are in group 2, your goal is to pass your interviews so you can secure offers. Most likely, the roles you are finding and your resume are good, so you should focus on interview preparation:

- [Practicing technical interviews](../guide/technicals)

## Other Resources

Here are helpful links from around the web to help you learn more:

### Career Development

- [Two-Hour Job Search](https://www.slideshare.net/kocharsimardeep/the-2-hour-job-search-book-summary-63004716)
- [Luck Surface Area](https://www.codusoperandi.com/posts/increasing-your-luck-surface-area)
- Behavioral Interviews: [STAR Method](https://www.themuse.com/advice/star-interview-method)
- Technical Interviews: [Data Structures & Algorithms Questions in Python](https://github.com/donnemartin/interactive-coding-challenges)
- Negotiating Offers ([Part 1](https://haseebq.com/my-ten-rules-for-negotiating-a-job-offer/), [Part 2](https://haseebq.com/how-not-to-bomb-your-offer-negotiation/))
- [Thread: Stretch Opportunities](https://twitter.com/mekkaokereke/status/1218940982122577921)

### Software Engineering

- [Pair Programming](https://martinfowler.com/articles/on-pair-programming.html)
- [Code Reviews](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/developer/)
- [Blameless Culture](https://medium.com/zendesk-engineering/blameless-culture-21662ab9118c)
- [How to Search For Solutions](https://medium.com/@niamhpower/how-to-google-effectively-as-a-developer-4ebe363afe)
- [System Design](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer)
- [Engineering Ladders](http://www.engineeringladders.com/)
- [Online Book: _Software Engineering at Google_](https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book)
