_blog/mentors.md, before:

---
layout: blog
title: Become a Scarlet Data Studio Mentor
description: Help Illinois Tech students grow as software engineers!
author: Vinesh Kannan
published: 2021-12-18
permalink: /s22/mentors
headers:
- no_blog
---

# Help Illinois Tech Students Grow as Software Engineers

Scarlet Data Studio is an alumni-run program in partnership with Illinois Tech to provide underrepresented students with paid, six-week software engineering internships.

Last summer we hosted ten students, you can [read more about their projects here](../blog/s21-projects). In summer 2022, we will host 20 students!

We are looking for more Illinois Tech alumni who work in software engineering or related roles to join our team as mentors next summer. You were specifically recommended as an accomplished and empathetic engineer who has experience teaching others!

Contact Vinesh Kannan (v@hawk.iit.edu) if you are interested or if you have any questions.

## Program Goals

Help underrepresented Illinois Tech students advance in their software engineering careers by:

- Offering a project that will help students succeed in their job search
- Paying students to do work in their field of study
- Connecting students with alumni who can advocate for them

## Mentor Responsibilities

Each mentor manages two interns and coaches them to grow as software engineers as they work towards launching new features in the codebase.

Projects, codebase, and documentation will be provided. 

### Compensation

Each mentor will be paid a $1200 honorarium from Illinois Tech Career Services.

### Time Commitment

6-8 total hours per week, for six weeks.

### Responsibilities

1. Read onboarding materials, which will be sent a month before the internship starts
2. Mentor two students during the program, who may also reach out to you in the future
3. Example weekly time breakdown (6hrs):
    - 30m (x2): Meet with each intern to ensure they understand goals for the week
    - 1hr (x2): Pair program with each intern to help them improve their skills
    - 30m: Mentor 1:1 with Vinesh for anything you and your interns need
    - 15m (x2): Code reviews for each intern’s pull requests
    - 30m (x2): Answering questions on Slack
    - 1hr: Flex time for anything else you or your interns might need

Other volunteers will help students with resume reviews, mock interviews, and blog article revisions so that mentors can focus on guiding their interns to succeed in their projects.

## Internship Details

### Projects

Overall topic to be determined.

[Ideas](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hV3nijTq-51E2rWCiGonkvnpzQd8X5LxJiCTeHGMYrs){:target="_blank"} include: blind dating app, running app, or multiplayer remote games.

Each intern should complete three projects, the first two are assigned to them:

1. **Starter Project:** a small code change that can be completed in one pull request
2. **Core Project:** a new feature they will launch that has already been scoped out
3. **Stretch Project:** a new idea they scope out with their mentor to grow in an area of interest

All projects come with documentation to support the mentor and intern.

### Schedule

The internship will run from Monday, June 27<sup>th</sup> to Friday, August 5<sup>th</sup>.

Interns work ten hours per week on a flexible schedule. We match mentors with interns who have similar availability to make it easier to schedule 1:1 meetings.

Here are the milestones from the perspective of the intern:

- **Week 1:** Complete onboarding, merge first pull request, understand core project
- **Week 2:** Make progress on core project
- **Week 3:** Launch core project, get feedback from a real user
- **Week 4:** Improve core project based on feedback
- **Week 5:** Scope a stretch project and start working on it
- **Week 6:** Complete stretch project and present your contributions

### Sample Resume Entry

Here is an example resume entry from one of last summer’s interns:

**Scarlet Data Studio**, Software Engineer, Intern, _July - August 2021_

- Worked on a team of 16 engineers and contributed four new features to TransitHealth.
- Extracted community belonging data from the Chicago Health Atlas API, created table schema to load into database, wrote queries with tests to slice data by year and by demographics.
- Created a new React component: modal to search 50+ metrics and group results by dataset.
- Integrated Cypress for end-to-end testing, automated on each pull request via GitHub actions.
- Found and helped fix five user-facing bugs, including one caused by an external data source.

### Sample Intern Blogs

If you want to learn more about the experience from the perspective of the interns, check out these blog articles from last summer’s internship:

- Fabian writes about [his internship contributions](https://fabrego524.github.io/PersonalWebsite/Blog/index.html){:target="_blank"} from building new UI components to squashing bugs with automated testing in Cypress
- Leilah writes about [her stretch project](https://alkatoutl.github.io/blog/stretchproject){:target="_blank"} to develop a new product strategy for language support in TransitHealth

## Join the Mentor Team

Contact Vinesh Kannan (v@hawk.iit.edu) if you are interested in joining Scarlet Data Studio as a paid mentor. We would appreciate any feedback you have about the program!

Commit message:

Update RunFlex posts and add Butterfly design doc.

_blog/mentors.md, after:

---
layout: blog
title: Become a Scarlet Data Studio Mentor
description: Help Illinois Tech students grow as software engineers!
author: Vinesh Kannan
published: 2021-12-18
permalink: /s22/mentors
headers:
- no_blog
---

# Help Illinois Tech Students Grow as Software Engineers

Scarlet Data Studio is an alumni-run program in partnership with Illinois Tech to provide underrepresented students with paid, six-week software engineering internships.

Last summer we hosted ten students, you can [read more about their projects here](../blog/s21-projects). In summer 2022, we will host 20 students!

We are looking for more Illinois Tech alumni who work in software engineering or related roles to join our team as mentors next summer. You were specifically recommended as an accomplished and empathetic engineer who has experience teaching others!

Contact Vinesh Kannan (v@hawk.iit.edu) if you are interested or if you have any questions.

## Program Goals

Help underrepresented Illinois Tech students advance in their software engineering careers by:

- Offering a project that will help students succeed in their job search
- Paying students to do work in their field of study
- Connecting students with alumni who can advocate for them

## Mentor Responsibilities

Each mentor manages two interns and coaches them to grow as software engineers as they work towards launching new features in the codebase.

Projects, codebase, and documentation will be provided. 

### Compensation

Each mentor will be paid a $1200 honorarium from Illinois Tech Career Services.

### Time Commitment

6-8 total hours per week, for six weeks.

### Responsibilities

1. Read onboarding materials, which will be sent a month before the internship starts
2. Mentor two students during the program, who may also reach out to you in the future
3. Example weekly time breakdown (6hrs):
    - 30m (x2): Meet with each intern to ensure they understand goals for the week
    - 1hr (x2): Pair program with each intern to help them improve their skills
    - 30m: Mentor 1:1 with Vinesh for anything you and your interns need
    - 15m (x2): Code reviews for each intern’s pull requests
    - 30m (x2): Answering questions on Slack
    - 1hr: Flex time for anything else you or your interns might need

Other volunteers will help students with resume reviews, mock interviews, and blog article revisions so that mentors can focus on guiding their interns to succeed in their projects.

## Internship Details

### Projects

Our team will work together to build Butterfly: a social matching app that helps members meet new people and learn new things by pairing them with someone in their community each week.

More details and the proposed teams can be found in the [product and engineering design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X_RHbXHpLTzLspmzhQ2klwR37ELQBq5CaEYkF4KTLdQ/edit?usp=sharing){:target="_blank"}.

Each intern should complete three projects, the first two will be assigned to them:

1. **Starter Project:** a small code change that can be completed in one pull request
2. **Core Project:** a new feature they will launch that has already been scoped out
3. **Stretch Project:** a new idea they scope out with their mentor to grow in an area of interest

All projects come with documentation to support the mentor and intern.

### Schedule

The internship will run from Monday, June 27<sup>th</sup> to Friday, August 5<sup>th</sup>.

Interns work ten hours per week on a flexible schedule. We match mentors with interns who have similar availability to make it easier to schedule 1:1 meetings.

Here are the milestones from the perspective of the intern:

- **Week 1:** Complete onboarding, merge first pull request, understand core project
- **Week 2:** Make progress on core project
- **Week 3:** Launch core project, get feedback from a real user
- **Week 4:** Improve core project based on feedback
- **Week 5:** Scope a stretch project and start working on it
- **Week 6:** Complete stretch project and present your contributions

### Sample Resume Entry

Here is an example resume entry from one of last summer’s interns:

**Scarlet Data Studio**, Software Engineer, Intern, _July - August 2021_

- Worked on a team of 16 engineers and contributed four new features to TransitHealth.
- Extracted community belonging data from the Chicago Health Atlas API, created table schema to load into database, wrote queries with tests to slice data by year and by demographics.
- Created a new React component: modal to search 50+ metrics and group results by dataset.
- Integrated Cypress for end-to-end testing, automated on each pull request via GitHub actions.
- Found and helped fix five user-facing bugs, including one caused by an external data source.

### Sample Intern Blogs

If you want to learn more about the experience from the perspective of the interns, check out these blog articles from last summer’s internship:

- Fabian writes about [his internship contributions](https://fabrego524.github.io/PersonalWebsite/Blog/index.html){:target="_blank"} from building new UI components to squashing bugs with automated testing in Cypress
- Leilah writes about [her stretch project](https://alkatoutl.github.io/blog/stretchproject){:target="_blank"} to develop a new product strategy for language support in TransitHealth

## Join the Mentor Team

Contact Vinesh Kannan (v@hawk.iit.edu) if you are interested in joining Scarlet Data Studio as a paid mentor. We would appreciate any feedback you have about the program!
